---
slug: "6.12.0"
title: "6.12.0"
description: Release notes for bud.js 6.12.0
date: 2023-04-03T08:24:42Z
author: kellymears
author_title: Developer
author_url: https://github.com/kellymears
author_image_url: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/397606?v=4
tags:
  - release
  - 6
  - 6.12
---

<!--This file is generated-->

Framework improvements, eslint fixes, better `config` directory support, and more.

<!--truncate-->

:::info Updates available

There are patches available for [this release](https://bud.js.org/releases/tags/6-12). Please update to [6.12.3](https://bud.js.org/releases/6.12.3).

:::

## 📦 tailwindcss 3.3.0 supported

bud.js now supports the new configuration options from tailwindcss 3.3.0. tailwind configs can now be authored with typescript or esm.

## 🧹 default storage location: .budfiles -> os cache dir

Less junk in your project is always good, right? The new default `@storage` directory is now `[os-cache dir]/bud-nodejs/[hash of project path]`. 

**Breaking change**: If you are explicitly setting the `@storage` directory you need to do it using the `--storage` CLI flag or the `APP_STORAGE_PATH` .env variable. By the time config files have been processed most reads and writes to `@storage` will have already occurred, so `bud.setPath` won't be effective. There will be a warning logged to the console if you are doing this; the main adverse effect will be slower builds when bud.js can't find caches during bootstrapping.

**Potentially breaking change**: If you are using remote modules (which lets you import modules from cdns like [skypack](https://skypack.dev) without installing locally) the `bud.lock` lockfile will now be written to the root of your project (unless you have configured it to be written somewhere else).

## ✨ Config files can be written in TypeScript (without extensions)

bud.js configuration files can now be authored in typescript without installing any additional extensions. if you were previously using the `ts-bud` binary you still can (it executes the bud.js runtime  with ts-node), but you can now just use the standard `bud` command (it is faster). `ts-bud` remains available in case you were doing some deeper integration with ts-node.

The parsing of TypeScript configs is handled with [esbuild-wasm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/esbuild-wasm). I have not been able to measure a meaningful difference in timings using this package instead of [esbuild](https://www.npmjs.com/package/esbuild) and the wasm binary doesn't need to be built so installs are a lot faster. However, if you want to use esbuild instead of esbuild-wasm you can install esbuild as a project dependency and it will be used instead. Again, I don't think it's worth the extra installation time. Especially since the results of config transforms are cached.

This also applies to eslint, tailwindcss, postcss and babel configs.

## ✨ Config files can be stored in `./config` directory

bud.js configuration files can now be stored in the `config` directory. This also applies to eslint, tailwindcss, postcss and babel configs.

## ✨ @roots/bud-eslint: upgrade eslint-webpack-plugin to v4

eslint-webpack-plugin@4 removes need for eslint cache fix

If you were disabling the fix with `bud.eslint.cacheFix.enable(false)` before you will be prompted to remove that call, as it is now deprecated.

See [#2191](https://github.com/roots/bud/pull/2191)

## 🏎️ performance: module resolution caching

Module paths resolved by `bud.module` are cached to `[cachedir]/resolutions.yml`. This gives a nice performance boost since we can skip a lot of lookups: 

The `resolve` and `import` methods used by `bud.module` treat built-in dependencies as fallbacks. So, if you aren't overriding any built-in dependencies and the cache is valid the net result is more than half as many calls to `importMetaResolve` and `import` statements.

- sha1 hashes are calculated for files in root and `config/*` and an artifact is output to `[cachedir]/checksum.yml`.
- Hash mismatches in config files or `package.json` will invalidate the `bud.module` resolver cache and the `compiler` cache. 

## 🏎️ performance: reuse context & bud instances 

`bud.context` is now re-used between bootstrap scripts and the cli application. 

## ✨ improve: unified error handling

Now extending [modern-errors](https://github.com/ehmicky/modern-errors) for unified error handling.

## 🩹 fix: no postinstall scripts in CI

There are some reliability issues with postinstall scripts (for @roots/bud-framework and @roots/browserslists-config) running in CI.

This update disables postinstall scripts when `process.env.CI` is set (default for gh actions).

See [#2169](https://github.com/roots/bud/pull/2169)

## ✨ improve(@roots/eslint-config): remove react-in-jsx-scope 

This rule is not really appropriate as a default for modern React.

See [#2154](https://github.com/roots/bud/pull/2154)

## 👩‍🔬 experimental: pnpm support

Installs with `pnpm` should work now. They may break again in the future, but we're closer to being able to claim full compatibility. You must install with public hoisting:

```sh
pnpm install --public-hoist-pattern=*
```

pnpm installs peers by default as of pnpm v8 🎉, so we suspect that compatibility will be a lot better once people upgrade.

## 📦 upgrade ink to v4

A ton of workarounds were required to make ink work prior to this upgrade. It's now compatible with react 18 and fully esm 🎉. 

## 📕 Documentation improvements

- Thanks to @chrillep for improving the `@roots/bud-eslint` documentation example config
- Adds documentation for `bud.config`
- Improves documentation for `bud.define`
- Adds pnpm installation instructions to getting started guide
