---
slug: "6.12.1"
title: "6.12.1"
description: Release notes for bud.js 6.12.1
date: 2023-04-26T00:37:57Z
author: kellymears
author_title: Developer
author_url: https://github.com/kellymears
author_image_url: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/397606?v=4
tags:
  - release
  - 6
  - 6.12
---

<!--This file is generated-->

Minor release with improvements and fixes for package resolution and caching

<!--truncate-->

:::info Updates available

There are patches available for [this release](https://bud.js.org/releases/tags/6-12). Please update to [6.12.3](https://bud.js.org/releases/6.12.3).

:::

## Fixes

### Failure installing custom TypeScript version with yarn

Fixes an error encountered when trying to install a custom version of TypeScript while using `@roots/bud-typescript` with yarn classic. [See #2216](https://github.com/roots/bud/issues/2216).

This issue is actually an upstream bug in yarn. But, our response sidesteps it and also improves compatibility with pnpm. 

The short version: we don't need to declare `typescript` as a peer dependency because of changes to `bud.module` made in bud v6. It will always try to resolve from the project context before using the built-in as a fallback. 

So, even without peer dependencies defined by the extension, the following call (when made from the `@roots/bud-typescript` context) will always try and resolve the module first from `node_modules/typescript`, and then `node_modules/@roots/bud-typescript/node_modules`. 

```ts
bud.module.resolve(`typescript`, import.meta.url)
```

The change that fixes #2216 has also been applied to `@roots/bud-eslint` and `@roots/bud-babel`. We'll apply it to other packages which use `peerDependencies` in future releases.

## Improvements

### Include eslint and tailwind configs in build dependencies

[#2233 Include tailwind & eslint configs in cached build dependencies](https://github.com/roots/bud/pull/2233) adds discovered `tailwind` and `eslint` configs to the map of files the compiler uses to validate the cache. Hopefully changes made to your tailwind config will now be more reliably reflected in your next build without having to use the `--force` flag. Additionally, only modules related to the changed config will be invalidated, which will be much faster than wiping everything.

### Prevent invoking multiple `esbuild` and/or `esbuild-wasm` modules

When transforming configuration modules authored in TypeScript bud.js will now prefer `esbuild` or `esbuild-wasm` as defined by `package.json`, if they are included.  The built-in `esbuild-wasm` included in `@roots/bud-support` is used as a fallback. This should be a minor improvement for users who are using `esbuild` in some other way as part of their build.

### Vendor `bind` decorator from `helpful-decorators`.

`helpful-decorators` is an awesome package but we are only using `bind` from it and it is used in a lot of places. This change eliminates the (modest) overhead associated with all the unused modules.
